# Lesson 8.1

In Lesson 8.1 we cover a brief introduction to JavaScript and important concepts.

### Instructions
1. Open Notepad, or your favorite text editor.
2. Save the file as.....
3. Using the example below, reproduce the webpage with your own content

**Need an idea?  Pick from these prompts:**
* idea
* idea
* idea

**Criteria for the Lesson NUMBER webpage:**
* .
* .
* .

```HTML5
// Sample code should that demonstrates what should be taught in this lesson should go here
```

## Details
Details about what the code above goes here

* `Each line of code should be bulleted here`
    * A bulleted list of things about the line above should go here
    * **Really important stuff should be bold like this**
    * Keywords should be *italicized*




# Lesson 8.2: File API

In Lesson 8.2 we cover the JavaScript File API

### Instructions
1. Open Notepad, or your favorite text editor.  Codepen.io may also be used.
2. Save the file as fileAPI.html
3. Using the example below, reproduce the webpage with your own style


**Criteria for the Lesson 8.2 webpage:**
* Style the form generated by the code below:
* Must style #page-wrapper
* Must style h1
* Optional: Apply a background color to the #fileDisplayArea


```HTML5
<div id="page-wrapper">

		<h1>Text File Reader</h1>
		<div>
			Select a text file: 
			<input type="file" id="fileInput">
		</div>
		<pre id="fileDisplayArea"><pre>

	</div>
	 <script src="text.js"></script> <!-- ERASE THIS LINE IF YOU'RE USING CODEPEN -->
```

### File API JavaScript
1. Create a new file called fileAPI.js
2. Type the JavaScript text as seen below:

```JavaScript
window.onload = function() {
		var fileInput = document.getElementById('fileInput');
		var fileDisplayArea = document.getElementById('fileDisplayArea');

		fileInput.addEventListener('change', function(e) {
			var file = fileInput.files[0];
			var textType = /text.*/;

			if (file.type.match(textType)) {
				var reader = new FileReader();

				reader.onload = function(e) {
					fileDisplayArea.innerText = reader.result;
				}

				reader.readAsText(file);	
			} else {
				fileDisplayArea.innerText = "File not supported!"
			}
		});
}

```
## Details
Details about what the code above goes here

* `window.onload = function() {}`
    * Anything within the {} is executed after the web page is completely loaded.

* `var fileInput = document.getElementById('fileInput');`
    * Set a variable called fileInput that is linked to the input with id="fileInput"
    
 * `var fileDisplayArea = document.getElementById('fileDisplayArea');`
    * Set a variable called fileDisplayArea that is linked to the id="fileDisplayArea"
        
  * `fileInput.addEventListener('change', function(e) {}`
    * An EventListener is added to the fileInput variable
    * Whenever the user selects a file the function is executed
    
  * `var file = fileInput.files[0];`
    * This variable, named file, looks at the fileInput files property and fetches the first file
    
  * `var textType = /text.*/;`
    * Checks to see if the submitted file is a text file (*.txt)  
    
  * `if (file.type.match(textType)) {}`
    * If the submitted file is a TEXT file, code within the {} brackets is executed.
    
  * `var reader = new FileReader();`
  	* The FileReader interface provides a number of methods that can be used to read either File or Blob objects. These methods are all asynchronous which means that your program will not stall whilst a file is being read. This is particularly useful when dealing with large files.

  * `reader.onload = function(e) { fileDisplayArea.innerText = reader.result; }`
    * When the reader is completed (or the text file is completely added to the File Reader Instance), the RESULT is the text within the file - This text will update the "innerText" of the id="fileDisplayArea".
    
* `reader.readAsText(file);`
    * The readAsText() method can be used to read text files. This method has two parameters. The first parameter is for the File or Blob object that is to be read. The second parameter is used to specify the encoding of the file. This second parameter is optional. If you don’t specify an encoding UTF-8 is assumed by default.
    * As this is an asynchronous method we need to setup an event listener for when the file has finished loading. When the onload event is called we can examine the result property of our FileReader instance to get the file’s contents. You will need to use this same approach for all of the read methods provided by FileReader.
    
* `else {fileDisplayArea.innerText = "File not supported!"}`
    * If the submitted file is not a text file, display "File Not Supported!"
   
 
 ### Some more...
 
 * readAsDataURL()
 	* The readAsDataURL() method takes in a File or Blob and produces a data URL. This is basically a base64 encoded string of the file data. You can use this data URL for things like setting the src property for an image. We will look at how to do this later in the images demo.
```JavaScript
var reader = new FileReader();

reader.onload = function(e) {
  var dataURL = reader.result;
}

reader.readAsDataURL(file);
```

 * readAsBinaryString()
 	* The readAsBinaryString() method can be used to read any type of file. The method returns the raw binary data from the file. If you use readAsBinaryString() along with the XMLHttpRequest.sendAsBinary() method you can upload any file to a server using JavaScript.
```JavaScript
var reader = new FileReader();

reader.onload = function(e) {
  var rawData = reader.result;
}

reader.readAsBinaryString(file);
```

 * readAsArrayBuffer()
 	* The readAsArrayBuffer() method will read a Blob or File object and produce an ArrayBuffer. An ArrayBuffer is a fixed-length binary data buffer. They can come in handy when manipulating files (like converting a JPEG image to PNG).
```JavaScript
var reader = new FileReader();

reader.onload = function(e) {
  var arrayBuffer = reader.result;
}

reader.readAsArrayBuffer(file);
```

 * abort()
    	* The abort() method will stop a read operation. This can come in handy when reading large files.
```JavaScript
reader.abort();
```

    
# Challenge Num

A challenge relating to the original sample code should go here.

```HTML5
// Sample code should that demonstrates what should be taught in this lesson should go here
```

* CRITERIA
    * item
    * item
    * item
